[Music]
to attack
on Sunday morning December 7th 1941
Japanese aircraft attacked American
military and naval installations at
Pearl Harbor in Hawaii the surprise
engagement lasted approximately two
hours resolution of the Pacific conflict
would occur four years later with the
arrival of the Atomic Age simultaneous
with the raid on Oahu the Japanese
launched assaults on the Philippines
Guam and Midway Island these events
tragically condemned the pitiful
condition of American intelligence
efforts the following day Congress
declared war on Japan three days later
the United States extended the
declaration to Germany and Italy the
initial months of the pacific conflict
were desperate and devastating for
American forces at Pearl Harbor 19 ships
were sunk or disabled about 150 planes
were destroyed 2335 soldiers and sailors
were killed and 68 civilians perished
the Japanese seized Guam December 13th
and Wake Island December 22nd the
Philippine invasion December 10th
repelled the American defenders with
Manila and Cabot a soon falling to the
Japanese January 2nd after a siege of
more than three months endurance Bataan
collapsed April 9th and American forces
withdrew to Cory adore Island where
11,500 ultimately were forced to
surrender May 6th to the Japanese the
costly Battle of the Java Sea February
27th through March first traded vital
naval war materiel and precious lives
for time having regrouped its forces the
Navy halted the Japanese advance in the
Battle of the Coral Sea May 7th and 8th
the first engagement in history in which
surface ships did not directly destroy
each other as all fighting was done by
carrier-based aircraft a month later in
the Battle of Midway the Japanese
suffered their first major defeat for
craft carrier's sunk and 275 planes lost
and the tide of the Pacific War began
turning against Nippon American forces
did not actively join in the offensive
against Germany and Italy until 1942 the
first independent United States bombing
raid in Europe was conducted August 17th
by the 8th Air Force from England and an
assault upon the railroad yards at Rouen
by autumn British and American troops
under the command of General Dwight D
Eisenhower executed Operation Torch with
landings November 8th in North Africa by
the New Year Eisenhower was appointed
February 6th commander-in-chief of all
Allied forces in Africa and by the
spring May 13th had succeeded in
liberating that continent out of this
campaign came the strategic advantage
for the invasion of Italy
September 3rd through 9th and
recognition of Eisenhower soon
transferred January 16th 1944 to command
of Allied expeditionary forces in London
as a brilliant organizer and leader of
the diverse Allied armies six months
after assuming command of the European
theater Eisenhower was executing June
6th operation overload the invasion of
France along the Normandy Peninsula it
was the beginning of the end of the Nazi
Empire during the spring and summer
months of 1945 world war ii came to a
halt on May 1st the provisional German
government announced Hitler was dead a
suicide in the ruins of Berlin an
instrument of surrender was signed at
allied headquarters at haunts on may 7th
VE Day the formal end of the war in
Europe occurred the following day and
the German surrender was ratified in
Berlin on may 9th three months later
United States aircraft dropped atomic
devices on Hiroshima August 6th and
Nagasaki August 10th agreement as to the
conditions for Japanese surrender was
achieved on August 14th
v-j day the formal end of war in the
Pacific occurred the following day and
the Japanese surrender was finalised on
September 2nd official termination of
the declaration of war against Germany
took place on October 19 1951 official
termination of war with Japan came on
March 20th 1952 with the Senate
ratification of the Treaty of Peace this
is our hidden history
you